Flawed Discount Logic

Insecure Workflows

Broken State Transitions

Bypassing Logic Restrictions




 1. Flawed Discount Logic
Q1. What is a Business Logic Vulnerability?
A: It occurs when an attacker manipulates how the application is supposed to behave (its business rules), often without triggering any technical security error — exploiting logic flaws instead.

Q2. What is flawed discount logic?
A: When an attacker abuses promotional or discount rules (e.g., applying the same coupon multiple times or using expired offers).

Q3. Example of flawed discount logic?
A:

http
Copy
Edit
POST /apply-coupon  
coupon=SAVE50
If the attacker applies SAVE50 multiple times or changes price in client-side logic (e.g., JS), they may get a free product or deep discount.

Q4. How to prevent it?
A:

Validate discount logic on the server side

Enforce one-time coupon use

Maintain backend logs of coupon usage

Avoid calculating price on the client-side

🔄 2. Insecure Workflow
Q5. What is an insecure workflow?
A: A workflow where critical checks are skipped, or steps can be completed out of order, leading to privilege misuse, unauthorized access, or free product delivery.

Q6. Example of insecure workflow?
A:

In a multi-step checkout, attacker skips the payment step and still confirms the order.

Attacker accesses /checkout/success directly.

Q7. How can testers detect insecure workflows?
A:

Use Burp Suite to capture multi-step sequences

Replay requests skipping steps or changing parameters

Monitor for success despite missing required logic

Q8. How to fix insecure workflows?
A:

Enforce step-based tokens or flags (e.g., step_token)

Server must verify that prior steps were successfully completed

Implement server-side session tracking of flow

🔁 3. Broken State Transitions
Q9. What is a broken state transition?
A: When a user can change their role, access, or status by manipulating state variables or skipping transition validations.

Q10. Example?
A:

A normal user manipulates a request to:

json
Copy
Edit
{ "role": "admin" }
...or accesses an endpoint to directly activate an account without verification.

Q11. How can you test broken state transitions?
A:

Try changing account_status, user_role, email_verified in requests

Access protected URLs before you're authorized

Replay requests from a different session or role

Q12. How to prevent it?
A:

Backend should enforce strict state validation

Do not allow state-altering parameters from user input

Validate transitions (e.g., only verified users can access /dashboard)

🎯 4. Manipulating Application Logic to Bypass Restrictions
Q13. What does it mean to bypass application logic?
A: Exploiting how the app expects users to behave, often by:

Skipping JS validations

Modifying prices, roles, or quantities

Using API directly instead of front-end

Q14. Common examples?
Changing price or quantity in an API request

Manually submitting a form that the UI hides

Editing is_premium_user: false → true in JSON

Q15. How can testers identify this?
A:

Intercept requests with Burp Suite

Modify parameters that affect logic (e.g., price, user type, flags)

Try actions that aren’t allowed through the UI

Q16. How to mitigate logic bypass issues?
A:

Never trust client-side logic — validate everything server-side

Disable hidden parameters in front-end and back-end

Implement role-based access control on APIs

Log unusual sequences or bypass attempts

✅ Summary Table
Vulnerability	Description	Example	Fix
Flawed Discount Logic	Misusing coupons or discounts repeatedly	Re-applying SAVE50 multiple times	Backend validation, coupon limits
Insecure Workflow	Skipping critical steps	Direct access to /confirm-order without payment	Step-by-step session tracking
Broken State Transitions	Jumping to unauthorized states	Changing account_verified: false → true	Strict state validation in backend
Bypassing Logic Restrictions	Altering data to perform forbidden actions	price=1 in re
