🧪 Web Cache Poisoning

🎭 Web Cache Deception

🔑 Exploiting Cache Keys


🧪 1. Web Cache Poisoning
Q1. What is Web Cache Poisoning?
A: It’s an attack where a malicious user stores (poisons) harmful or manipulated content in a shared cache, causing other users to receive the attacker’s manipulated response.

Q2. How does it work?
A:

Caches (e.g., CDN, proxy) store responses for reuse.

If the cache fails to validate headers or parameters properly, the attacker can:

Send a crafted request

Poison the cached version

Victims receive tainted content

Q3. Real example?
A:

http
Copy
Edit
GET /home HTTP/1.1
Host: site.com
X-Host: evil.com
If the response is cached including X-Host, then all future users may see a redirect to evil.com.

Q4. What are common poisoning vectors?
A:

Headers: Host, X-Forwarded-Host, X-Original-URL

Query parameters

Request path manipulation

Cookies (if they affect cache key but not response)

Q5. How to prevent web cache poisoning?
A:

Only cache responses that are identical for all users

Sanitize or ignore user-controlled headers

Set proper Vary: headers (e.g., Vary: Accept-Encoding)

Avoid caching error pages or redirects

🎭 2. Web Cache Deception
Q6. What is Web Cache Deception?
A: It’s an attack where an attacker tricks the server into caching a private/authenticated page by adding deceptive URL paths (e.g., fake .css, .jpg) that force a cache.

Q7. Example scenario?
A:

pgsql
Copy
Edit
GET /account/settings HTTP/1.1  → (Not cached: private)

GET /account/settings/fake.jpg → (Server still returns HTML, but now cached)
➡ The attacker later loads this URL, and gets a cached version of someone else's private data.

Q8. Why is this dangerous?
A:

Server sees a request to a static-looking path

Caching proxy/CDN caches it

If it contains user-specific data, it gets leaked to others

Q9. How to test for web cache deception?
A:

Append /xyz.jpg, /abc.css, /test.php, or /random.html to authenticated endpoints

Check response for sensitive content

Verify if it returns 200 OK and is marked Cacheable

Q10. How to mitigate it?
A:

Avoid caching user-specific or sensitive pages

Check path extensions before serving dynamic content

Use headers:

http
Copy
Edit
Cache-Control: private, no-store, no-cache
🔑 3. Exploiting Cache Keys
Q11. What is a Cache Key?
A: The cache key is the combination of URL, headers, cookies, and other request parts used to determine whether two requests are "the same" and can share a cached response.

Q12. How can an attacker exploit cache key issues?
A:

If the cache key doesn’t include user-controlled values, but the server processes them, the attacker can:

Inject malicious behavior in the response

Get it cached and served to others

Q13. Real-world example?
If the cache key is just the URL:

pgsql
Copy
Edit
GET /index?lang=en&user=admin  → response is cached
...and attacker sends:

sql
Copy
Edit
GET /index?lang=en&user=evil   → modifies response, but same key used
➡️ Poisoned response is cached and shown to all.

Q14. How to protect cache keys?
A:

Ensure cache key includes all user-controlled inputs that affect the response

Use Vary headers carefully

Sanitize untrusted inputs

Avoid depending on non-key elements (like cookies) to render content

✅ Summary Table
Vulnerability	Description	Example Payload	Defense
Web Cache Poisoning	Store malicious content in cache used by others	X-Host: evil.com	Sanitize headers, proper cache key handling
Web Cache Deception	Trick cache into storing private pages	/profile/fake.jpg	No caching on auth pages, check paths/extensions
Cache Key Exploitation	Cache key doesn’t include all user-controlled values	user=admin in URL, but not in cache key
